DOC-2200-nullableb-4.3 (#327)
tigergraph/gsql-docs: modules/ddl-and-loading/pages/null-value.adoc

= NULL Value

Null indicates that a data value has not been provided. It is not the same as an empty string ("") or `0`, as those represent specific values.

The two valid input formats for a null value are `NULL` and `null`.

== Schema Definition

> A vertex or edge attribute can be defined with the `NULLABLE` keyword, which allows it to store `NULL` values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any non-key vertex or edge attribute can be defined with the `NULLABLE` keyword, which allows it to store `NULL` values.
```

* If an attribute is `NULLABLE` and `DEFAULT`  is not specified, then its default value is `NULL`.
* If `NULLABLE` option is given, and default value is given, then the given default value will be used.
* The following constraints apply when defining `NULLABLE` attributes:

> ** In xref:4.3@gsql-ref:ddl-and-loading:defining-a-graph-schema.adoc#_create_vertex[CREATE VERTEX]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** In the xref:gsql-ref:ddl-and-loading:defining-a-graph-schema.adoc#_create_vertex[CREATE VERTEX]
```
Please remove the rest of the version specifiers from the links.

statement, `PRIMARY_ID` and `PRIMARY KEY` cannot be `NULL` .

> ** In the xref:ddl-and-loading:defining-a-graph-schema.adoc#_create_edge[CREATE EDGE] statement, any attribute used as a discriminator cannot be defined with `NULLABLE`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following cannot be `NULLABLE` because they are used as key:

* `PRIMARY_ID` and `PRIMARY KEY` in a vertex or edge
* any attribute used in a xref:ddl-and-loading:defining-a-graph-schema.adoc#_discriminator[discriminator] in an edge

If an attribute is defined to be `NULLABLE` and `DEFAULT` is not specified, then its default value is `NULL`.
```
The previous text was factually correct, but I think this version is easier to understand.

> ** In xref:4.3@gsql-ref:ddl-and-loading:defining-a-graph-schema.adoc#_create_edge[CREATE EDGE] statement, any attribute used as a discriminator cannot be defined with `NULLABLE`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** In the xref:gsql-ref:ddl-and-loading:defining-a-graph-schema.adoc#_create_edge[CREATE EDGE] statement, any attribute used as a discriminator cannot be defined with `NULLABLE`.
```

For xref:4.3@gsql-ref:ddl-and-loading:modifying-a-graph-schema.adoc#_add_vertex_edge[modifying an existing schema], the same principles apply as in `CREATE VERTEX` or `CREATE EDGE` syntax.

== Supported Data Types

* xref:4.3@gsql-ref:ddl-and-loading:attribute-data-types.adoc#_primitive_types[Primitive types]

> used as vertex or edge attributes can be set to `NULL` .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
used as vertex or edge attributes can be set to `NULL`.
```

* xref:4.3@gsql-ref:ddl-and-loading:attribute-data-types.adoc#_collection_types[Collection types]
(`LIST`, `SET`, `MAP`) can be set to `NULL`  as a whole, but `NULL` elements within
a collection are not supported.

[NOTE]
====
For `MAP`, neither keys nor values can be NULL.
====

== Data Loading

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Data Loading

A null value can be loaded into the database in three circumstances:

```

> * `NULL` values can be ingested into nullable attributes through a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The input data source contains null values.
`NULL` values can be ingested into nullable attributes through a
```

loading job (xref:4.3@gsql-ref:ddl-and-loading:creating-a-loading-job.adoc[Create a Loading Job] and xref:4.3@gsql-ref:ddl-and-loading:running-a-loading-job.adoc[Running a Loading Job])

> or the xref:4.3@gsql-ref:querying:data-modification-statements.adoc#_insert_into_statement[INSERT INTO] statement using the `NULL` keyword in the `VALUES` clause.

Reviewer: This sentence reads strangely, with these links.
Suggestion: Just say what you want, without any links. Then decide where it would be helpful to add links. But don't let the links force your wording of the sentence.

* If no default value is defined for an attribute, using the underscore (`_`)
placeholder loads `NULL` into the attribute. For existing vertices or edges,

> the attribute value remains unchanged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. The loading job indicates via the underscore (`_`)  that an attribute is to be skipped.  In this case, if a default value has been specified, the default value is loaded.  Otherwise, if the attribute is nullable, the null value is loaded.  If neither of those conditions hold, then the default value for that attribute type (e.g., 0 for integer) is loaded
```

[WARNING]
====

> Attempts to load a null value into a non-nullable attribute causes a loading failure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Attempting to load a null value into a non-nullable attribute causes a loading failure.
```

====

== Query Output

* `NULL` values loaded into nullable attributes can be printed using the xref:4.3@gsql-ref:querying:output-statements-and-file-objects.adoc#_print_statement_api_v2[PRINT statement].

> * The output is represented as `null` in xref:4.3@gsql-ref:querying:output-statements-and-file-objects.adoc#_json_format_keys[JSON] and CSV formats.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In both JSON and CSV output, the null value is represented as `null`.
See the xref:gsql-ref:querying:output-statements-and-file-objects.adoc#_print_statement_api_v2[PRINT statement] section for more details.
```
